# Heart-Disease-Prediction
# Heart diseases are the leading cause of death for many people. The World Health Organization has estimated 12 million deaths occur due to heart diseases worldwide every year. Half the deaths in the United States and other developed countries are due to cardiovascular diseases. . The early diagnosis of cardiovascular diseases can assist in making lifestyle changes in high-risk patients and, in turn, reduce the complications. This research aims to pinpoint the most relevant risk factors of heart disease as well as predict the overall risk. So, in this project, we are predicting whether the patient has a 10-year risk of future coronary heart disease depending on the input parameters. We have utilized the logistic regression model and decision tree model to depict if the patient has a 10-year risk of future coronary heart disease or not. The use of machine learning and data science makes life easier in every aspect, and machine learning is firmly identified with (and frequently covers with) computational insights, which also focus on prediction making through the use of technology. The main idea of this project is:

- To predict whether the patient has a 10-year risk of future coronary heart disease
- Machine learning models like logistic regression and decision tree are implemented to predict
- Various metrics such as precision, recall, F1 score, and accuracy are calculated to validate the model
- Performed hyperparameter tuning to improve the performance accuracy of the model
